I'm making tens of thousands of dollars  a month with drop servicing. This is what brought me to the number one position on  freelancer.com among 70 million users. 
So, how does this work? What is Drop Servicing? This isn't drop shipping, where you sell all  sorts of physical products online. This is selling  
services and then finding someone who will deliver  it on your behalf. I've been doing this for many, many years, and it has been a big part  of my $2 million 
earnings on Freelancer.

This video is a part of a series I've  worked on for months. I started this YouTube channel to help freelancers worldwide  improve what they do and scale their 
work as much as possible. So stick with me to  learn some valuable freelancing lessons.

The Basics of Drop Servicing

First of all, you don't need  any skills. I will repeat that you don't need any skills. You don't need to  know anything about programming, video editing,  
writing, or design. You will actually hire  people who will do that for you. "Remote" is the keyword here. There are no offices, office  supplies, coffee breaks, 
rented computers, or anything else you need to consider. Everybody  is working from wherever they choose. I have full-time employees in my agency who work  in our 
beautiful office, but on top of that, a worldwide network of freelancers and  partners who assist us with projects.

There is really no reason  whatsoever why you shouldn't start drop servicing tomorrow. So, let's go!

Choosing a Service and Understanding the Market

The first step is to find a service. What  interests you? What are you good at? Or maybe what you want to learn about? It can be design,  programming, photo 
editing, SEO services, writing, managing social media... I don't know, it can be  all of that (like in my case) or something that is  now in demand, like an AI 
automation agency.  Choosing a service is completely up to you.

Finding and Hiring Service Providers

Let's say, for example, you're interested in  video production and know a thing or two about how it works. The next step, and I would say the  most important step, 
is finding service providers, also known as people and freelancers. You must  take this seriously because you are hiring people to do the work for you. If they 
screw up,  you will screw up and lose clients and money. The best way to approach this is  by finding people on freelancing platforms like freelancer.com, Upwork,  
or Fiverr. There are other platforms, but you can find almost anybody on these three.  

Search freelancers by their ratings, look at their reviews and feedback from clients, see how  many jobs they completed successfully, and check  
their rates and availability. Look for people  who are professional and who respond quickly.

The Importance of Quality and Professionalism

It is very important not to cheap on your service  providers. It could cost you so much more money in the long run. Don't rush this process.  Just be patient, pay 
their asking rates, or try to lower them a bit by promising constant  work. But don't try to cut their rates in half; this won't get you anywhere. People know 
their  worth and won't accept a significant rate drop. Ask for a 10 to 20% discount, but if they say  no, don't push it. Just quit. If you don't stand  
to your word, you can quickly receive bad feedback  from freelancers on platforms, which could cost you your reputation. I definitely wouldn't  want to work with 
people who have poor ratings.

Right?

If you don't have time to browse  through thousands of profiles, post a job. Be honest in your job  post. Start by writing something like, "I'm looking for 
freelancers for long-term  collaborations on various projects." Going into specific detail about that can attract  more freelancers with better ratings because  
those don't have time to waste on endless  messaging back and forth. Keep that in mind. In my case, I take at least two weeks  for interviews, and unfortunately, 
you need to do that. The most time-consuming  thing to do is to go on calls with people in different time zones. But that way, you  can really know who you are 
talking with. This step is avoidable, but it could cost  you later when the workload increases and  you realize you don't know what your freelancers  are doing. It 
could lead to an absolute disaster.

If you're hiring freelancers in your  niche, for example, video production, ask them to do a paid test job. By "paid", I mean  an hour or two of work. I certainly 
wouldn't want to do test work that could take hours or days  without being paid for a person I never talked to before. You can, of course, skip this step, but
again, in the long run, it could cost you.

After you finally find some people you like, discuss their rates. If you want to profit from this, you need to charge your clients more than freelancers charge 
you. Of course! I will  explain this in a minute. You can pay them on an hourly rate, daily rate, or per project. I would advise that at the beginning, you pay 
your  freelancers per project after completion and make that clear to them. The faster the project is done, the faster they get paid, and the faster  
you get paid. Dragging on simple video editing for  YouTube for weeks is definitely not profitable.

Setting Up Efficient Communication and Task Management

You've vetted your preferred freelancers, and you  are ready to make some money. But first of all, everybody must know what they are doing. I  would advise 
starting groups on WhatsApp, Discord, or whatever you feel like for  faster communication. I do that all the time. By posting messages with job descriptions in 
these groups, in a couple of minutes, I know who is  available to start working on a new project.
  
We use ClickUp for managing tasks, but you can use whatever app you feel: Asana, Trello, Notion, or even the free Google Workspace. You need to create tasks for 
the project. For example, if it's a video editing project, a task could be sourcing stock footage and graphics. When this is completed, you will receive a 
notification from  the tool. Sending individual messages to inquire about a completed task is a serious waste of time.  After a while, when you scale your 
business, it's time to hire a project manager. A professional who will track tasks and freelancers for you, because your main job is to find work and  keep 
clients happy. Happy clients will stick with you and make you more money. More  on that later, please don't skip that part.

Understanding Profits and Margins

Let's talk about money. Everybody's here because of the green, not fame, right? So, how exactly do you make money from drop servicing? For example, if you're in 
video production drop servicing, the client has a $1,000 budget for a 30-minute  video editing project. Your freelancer charges you from $200 to $500 to edit a 30-
minute  video. If the client wants a top-notch result, you will hire a $500 freelancer for this.  So, you have been paid $1,000. Of that,  
you pay your editor, of course, $500. The $500 is  your profit margin. In this case, it is 50% â€” an awesome profit margin. Sometimes you can get away with that, 
but from my experience, a 30% profit margin is more realistic. As I said before, you don't want to cheap out on your freelancers, and you don't want to hire the 
cheapest  workforce. You want to hire the best workforce.

If a client has a budget of $2,000 for mobile app development and the cost of your freelancer is $1,800, then $200 is your profit margin.  It seems small for so 
much work, but drop servicing is all about scaling. If you have 10  freelancers working on 10 different projects, this is 10 times $200. But only you know how 
much  money you want to make off of this. Maybe $5,000 a month is enough. Maybe it is $10,000 or more. If that is the case, you need to think about scaling.

Paying Freelancers and Ensuring Trust

If you hire a freelancer on, let's say, freelancer.com, then you can pay them through the platform. You actually pay an invoice to freelancer.com, for which they 
take their cut and transfer the funds to freelancers. That  is how lots of freelancers prefer to work, because the money is in escrow. These platforms  protect 
them. And yeah, small note: escrow is a secure payment system which basically keeps the  money until they deliver the work. This way, they're protected in a way 
that they'll be paid,  and you in a way that you'll be getting your work at the end. But platforms take their share, which  is usually around 10%. If you pay a 
freelancer $100, he will receive $90 for his work before  taxes. The other way is for the freelancers to invoice you directly. Choose what works best  for you, 
and remember to keep your people happy.

Acquiring Clients and Building a Portfolio

By now, you should know where to find freelancers and how to manage and pay them. And now, let's discuss how to find clients. The easiest way  to find clients is 
through freelancing platforms. There are thousands and thousands of job posts  on Freelancer, Upwork, and Fiverr every single minute. You don't need to look at 
every one of them. Filter jobs through niches, client location, payment methods, and so on. If you choose to go  this way, you must bid on your jobs. For example, 
if a client posts a job requiring a logo design  and the budget is $100, expect other freelancers to make offers that are usually lower than the  proposed budget. 
Don't be surprised when you see that somebody will offer $20 for that job.  Dumping prices is quite often, to be honest. But if I were the client, I wouldn't even 
consider  bids like that because you want quality work, not the cheapest one. Quality and low prices  don't go hand in hand, in my experience. Also, from my 
experience, if the client hires that guy  for $20, he will come back in a week looking for another designer. This time his budget will  be higher because he was 
probably not happy, and he will look for another one. Let's be  clear on this: if your designer charges you $60 for a logo design, then you can bid $90 or  so to 
make a profit. Bidding lower than $70 is just not worth it. There are lots of videos on  my channel about freelancing and bidding. Feel free to look around for 
more information about  this and ask me any questions that you have. The harder but more profitable way of finding  clients is through ads and cold outreach. If 
you want to advertise your work through ads,  but you don't have a portfolio or a website, there is a way to take care of that. First  of all, you can ask 
freelancers with whom you are working to use their portfolios. It's in  everybody's best interest to have more work, so I don't think they'll mind. Creating 
websites  through website builders has never been easier, especially with the help of AI. I found this  helpful video about that on a channel called Artificial 
Architects, and I'll link it down in  the comments. You can be up and running with a vast portfolio on a modern-looking website  purely in minutes. Ad campaigns 
cost money, so you know that you need to factor that into  your budget. Some will say that you're losing money every single day you aren't advertising.  I can 
agree with that. If you're going with ads, you must stick with them until you establish  a solid network of clients and freelancers.

Advertising vs. Cold Outreach

The other method is called outreach, and I will  talk about this in more detail in my next video. It will be full of useful information; it  is my promise. Cold 
outreach is basically a strategy used to initiate new relationships  or opportunities by contacting individuals or organizations without prior interaction, and  
that is why it's called "cold." You will be sending emails to hundreds of addresses offering  your services. It can be effective but requires careful planning and 
execution to be really  successful. This is why I'm making a detailed video about it. I know what you're asking right  now: "But Matt, why wouldn't anyone work 
with me?" There are two main reasons: cost and specific  solutions that you can provide. I've just received a cold email in my inbox before filming this  video, 
and it is really poorly done. It is just some generic random nonsense that won't catch  anybody's attention. It actually looks like spam. In your email, you need 
to be specific and address  solutions to the client's problems. For example, you can run a pre-test, show them exactly  what's wrong, and offer a free value up 
front, like the way to fix it. Their first thought might  be, "Okay, if this person is offering me so much value for free, what can they provide to me if  I'm 
actually paying them?" How cool is that? And you can structure it in a way that, in  order to get free value, they have to click a certain link or so. Your tools 
will capture  exactly who the interested buyer is. This way, you can target them with follow-up emails  because you know that you have their attention.

Differentiating from the Competition and Client Management

Right? But before that, you need to research  your competition. What are their prices, marketing, and clients? And how do they position  themselves? Do not just 
copy and paste them; look and feel better than everybody out there.  Put time and effort into your presentation. You don't need to attract hundreds of  clients; 
you only need 5 to 10 good ones. Big companies are often lazy and slow, and they  like working with other companies that have large  teams and established 
communication. My sweet spot  is small to medium-sized companies. Take a look at their business and offer them something that  will cut costs and improve their 
products. Offer them packages, for example: research, design, and  marketing for their new product launch. Customer service is extremely important here. Keep your 
client in the loop with the job progress, ask them questions, and give them a thing or two for  free or a discount just to make them super happy. As the 
middleman, you'll handle customer  inquiries and complaints and ensure that the service meets the client's expectations. But  after you scale, or even before if 
possible, I advise that you hire somebody whose sole  job will be communication with clients.

I've shown you the good sides and how to  deal with every step, but there are some challenges. Ensuring consistent quality control  can be challenging since you 
are not providing the service. You're dependent on third-party  service providers. If they fail to deliver, it can affect your reputation.  The barrier to entry 
is low, so there can be significant competition  in popular service categories. There are more good sides to this: you  don't need to invest in inventory or  
physical space. You can easily scale  your business by adding services or sourcing multiple providers. And  most importantly, you can run a drop-servicing 
business from anywhere with  an internet connection. How cool is that?

If you are still here and watching, I thank you for that. If you found this useful, please click that like button and leave me a comment to help me reach more 
people. My long-term prediction is that drop-servicing will  not go anywhere and will become in even bigger demand. Take care of your people, and thank  you for 
watching. See you in the next one.
